---
path: "/insight.html"
date: "2017-07-13T03:49:16.408Z"
title: "Actionable Insight Processing"
tags: ["first"]
---

Look, noone is saying reading is bad alright? You just have to be cautious. "How many books do you read?" is a startlingly common metric for how aware of certain things you are. This is not a bad metric, but please please please remember it's a metric, not a target. When you make the metric the target or guideline it becomes a worthless metric. That's Goodharts law right there. And now to never say the m-word in this thing again. Reading is great because among other things, it gives access to certain resources that would be effectively impossible for you to access otherwise. Also disclaimer, I'm speaking about mostly the kind of reading that is used to improve something. Put bluntly, reading by itself does not give you the improvements (generally) you're looking for when you read. Simply reading the Art of War doesn't give me access to Sun-Tsu levels of stratagem and mischief. You have to *study* what you want to take from. You have to apply it everywhere you possibly can. You have to roll it around in your head, your hands, and your mouth. You can't learn how to wield scales by simply repeating them over and over, you have to *use* them. I'm just now learning how often I fall victim to this, I read a pretty ungodly amount, at least 3 hours a day probably on average. Most of what I read I don't really remember. That's unfortunately I think extremely common. In order to gain the power of the thing you're reading about you have to understand it as completely as you can. The new concept or refinement to a concept you already possess is not going to magically become part of your arsenal. You have to manually select it and swing it at everything possible to gain proficiency with it. Asking specific pertinent questions like "what about my behavior will change after reading this?" or "what are 18 different situations I could apply this in that I could realistically be faced with?" and then trying them out and figuring out the guts of this new things that you apparently think is important enough to wield. Again, this doesn't apply remotely as hard to declarative knowledge, if all you need to know about the mitochondria is that it's the powerhouse of the cell, then whoop-de-fuckin'-do. You did it. 
