---
path: "/ello-world.html"
date: "2017-07-13T03:49:16.408Z"
title: "Being and Prosperity"
tags: ["first"]
---

Existing well looks a lot like fulfilling this terrifying large and monstrous machine. It's a fairly nebulous thing, behaving in ways you don't understand, and responding not at all how you would prefer. Sometimes though, you glimpse the underlying machinery, sometimes it's a note of triumph, sometimes it's the shadowed insight, telling you that you're on the wrong path. Personally, I just had one today I think. Competence is something I make a big deal about it, and I have a strange relationship to it. I think I've somehow managed to shift my Dunning Kruger graph to the left, so the point of minimum confidence is much closer to my starting place. I start off not knowing shit, and then progress quickly to knowing how much shit I don't know. I go in with that as the expectation I think, I speed it up on purpose. This is beneficial usually because I go meta a lot and take my time dissecting something I haven't worked with before. But that's tertiary to what I'm trying to point at today. I absolutely radiantly adore being able to do things. I was playing guitar today, and I've been trying to learn how to play a solo by ear, and I've had to basically start over in a new spot because a specific doesn't jive with my initial structures. So I started over, and by jove I got completely caught up and then some in this new place. Things glide, I can speak when I want, I can *sing* when I want. Do you know how beautiful that is to create something that resonates with your goddamn **soul**? This is the flip side, I have so much learned helplessness that I'm actually generally pathetic outside of the areas I'm not used to. Like I've been doing parkour and calisthenics for over a decade, I'm used to moving and flowing and being able to do exactly what I want. But I'm so bad at dancing with a partner, I tried learning how to swing dance with my girlfriend at the time, and it was incredibly stressful every single time. I'm not used to being shit at moving. Same thing happens with computers, I know how to navigate and make things okay. But I've actually coded a very small amount of stuff, it's rather pathetic; I'm stuck in the spot of not knowing how to create or manipulate the thing that I'm trying to do, conceptually I usually have very little problem, or I catch on soon enough. But practically I'm actually just crawling when I feel like I could be running up a mounting. I've been learning to cook, and the amount of freedom that being even remotely competent at cooking gets you is astonishing. My mom has been helping me make dishes for the last week or so, and today I made 2 different things on my own without really thinking about it. I was just like "I want an omelet for breakfast; a tuna melt for dinner". That feeling of open-ness, the place where you can explore and roam and don't have to worry so much about the rules, but can start thinking of situations. That's what I get a fucking kick out of. I think that's why I dislike math classes so much, but I love econ classes, I already know how to do econ, it's intuitive and natural for me. So homework is fun because it's just a different way to apply these things I have a firm grasp on. I think this is one of those insights that applied correctly has the potential to make life a lot better in certain ways. Y'know?
